Let's get spark up and running that will allow us
to run some spark applications on a spark cluster.
In this workspace we have the scripts for starting spark
in the home workspace spark sbin folder.
You will find a similar folder called spark
sbin in your own spark installation on your server.
If I list in this directory in the workspace,
we have two scripts.
One that starts a master,
and one that starts the worker.
I'm going to start the master first.
Okay. Thinks it's already running.
I'm going do a stop all.
When I start the Spark Master,
the thing I'm looking for right off the bat is this folder and file location for the log.
I'm going to copy that location,
and then I'm going to cut that file.
Almost the last line that I see,
I guess it's about the fifth the last line,
is this URI for the master.
That's the way the Spark Worker can address the Spark Master and communicate with it.
I've copy that, and then I'm going to start the worker.
As a command line parameter,
I'm going to pass the spark URI.
Thinks that's still running,
so I'm going to say stop.
Another one, okay.
I'm going back to that folder,
and I'm going to start the worker and pass the URI.
Now, handy command to look out for both of them running is this ps -ef command.
It's not necessary, but if I run it,
I see two lines that both are running Spark.
That tells me I have both a worker and master running.
Okay, now to make it easier to see what I'm typing,
I'm going to type the clear command,
and that just clears out the terminal and brings me up to the top of the screen.
Now let's get the HellosPark program working.
We're going to use that to demonstrate the features of
the spark cluster and get some practice running it.
We've got a file in this folder called Test.txt.
If we open it, it just looks like an e-mail,
and there's just free form text in it.
We have five lines and various words that are in that file.
What we want to do is we're actually going to count how many times we see
the letter 'a' and how many times we see the letter 'b' in that file.
The first thing we're going to do is create
a variable that stores the location of that file.
I'm just calling it log file,
because a lot of times that's a file that we're going to be processing, it's a log.
Next, I'm going to create a Spark Session using
the SparkSession class that I've imported.
I'm going to give the application a name,
I'm calling it "HelloSpark".
Then I'm going to call getOrCreate().
That actually instantiates the SparkSession with that specific application name.
A lot of the things we do are within the scope of a spark session.
Later we'll work with something called spark views,
and the SparkSession is the bounded context for that construct for view.
View isn't global, because all spark sessions,
it's only within that one session that we've created.
When we run spark by default,
there's a lot of information that comes on to the terminal.
We want to reduce that so it's easier to see what we're doing.
We're going to actually take the SparkSession and reduce
the logging level to minimal logging.
The way you do that is by saying spark.sparkContext.setLogLevel().
We're going to use the level called 'WARN',
which means we're not going to show any info messages.
That makes it a lot easier to find what we're looking for.
Next, I'm going to create a variable that's actually a DataFrame.
This is the first DataFrame you're going to work with.
It's not our streaming DataFrame,
because it's not watching data in motion,
it's just referring to a static text file.
Spark has both DataFrames and streaming DataFrames.
This is just a regular DataFrame.
I've created that variable name,
and now I'm going to assign a DataFrame to it.
The way I create the DataFrame is starting with the spark session.
I'm going to say spark.read.text,
and now I'm passing the full path to the file.
I'm going to tell it to cashe,
and then I'm going to look for the number of times I see the letter 'a' in the file.
That's actually going to correspond in this case
with the number of rows that have a letter 'a' in them.
If you look at this row,
it has an 'a',
this row has an 'a',
this row has an 'a' and this row has an 'a',
that's what we're referring to.
We're going to create a variable for that called number numAs.
We're going to take the DataFrame and do
some filtering to get to the number that we just counted by hand.
That's easy to do by hand if you've got a small file.
But if you've got a file that has hundreds of thousands,
or millions of rows than processing it programmatically is much more optimal.
The call that I'm doing here is I'm taking a DataFrame,
which is called logData.
I'm calling the.filter method on it.
Then inside of the filter,
I'm giving it an expression to filter by.
I'm looking for any place that the logData.value contains the letter 'a'.
Then I'm going to get a quick count of that information,
and that is going to give me the number.
I'm going to do the same thing for the number of Bs.
I'm going to take the logData and filter it.
I'm going to use an expression there that's logData.value.contains what? It's 'b'.
Now I'm going to take that.
I've got basically at this point,
I've got a filtered DataFrame that's only reflecting the rows with 'b' in it.
If we look, Hello everyone this is a text file would like to parse,
for the spark exercise,
thanks, have a great weekend!
It's going to look through every row,
and if it sees a 'b' on any of those,
then it's going to include it.
If it doesn't see a 'b' then it's not going to include it at this point.
Now I'm going to count what's included after the filter,
and that's going to be assigned to the variable called numBs.
Now I'm going to print to the screen the information that I've counted.
Sometimes I like to put these markers before and after something that's in a console,
or in a terminal because it's easier for me to find my place later on.
I'm going to say, "lines with," and I'm going to
give some older style spark string templating,
starting in spark 3.6.
There is a newer way of doing this,
and I'm using the old school way and lines with 'b',
and I'm going to use the letter 'i' in both cases.
Then I'm going to do some string replacement with
the variables that I've instantiated earlier.
I am going to replace the first string template with numAs,
and the second with numBs.
I'm going to do a little bit more marking on this just to make it consistent.
The last thing I'm going to do is stop the spark application.
I just take the SparkSession and I call it stop on it.
Now I'm going to save this file.
At this point, you're probably used to doing with Python.
If you've worked with Python is you would just normally type
python and the name of the file that you're working with.
We're actually going to do things differently for the duration of this course.
We're going to be running them using something different instead
of just using the word python and then calling the script.
We're going to actually use the constructs within spark itself,
and it will use a spark interpreter to execute the script.
In our case, we're going to use a command called Spark Submit.
If I go to the home, workspace,
spark bin folder, there's a shell script called spark-submit.
Again, in your spark installation,
you'll have a spark folder there and a sub folder called bin,
and that's where spark-submit will be located for you.
I'm going to just say spark-submit,
because I'm in the folder where that command is,
I can just do.slash which is short for here where I am and then referring to the script.
Then I'm going to give it the full path to the Spark Python application.
I'm seeing home, workspace,
and then I'm going to save and name of the Python script hellospark.py.
Now it's thinking and it's starting to run.
You'll see a bunch of loading happening of libraries and so on,
and now it's waiting.
You'll see this message right before it executes the Python script.
Then it found the number of lines with 'a' was four.
If we go back to here, 1, 2, 3,
4, and the number of lines with 'b' are zero.
We don't see any here,
so that's consistent with what we were hoping to do.
This is a fun exercise just to get things started up
and experience running a Python inside of Spark.